---
title: Fostering Inclusivity, Empowering Career Development
url: https://www.itw.com/posts/fostering-inclusivity-empowering-career-development/
date: '2024-11-06'
author: ''
feed_url: http://www.itw.com/blog/rss
---
At ITW, our people are empowered to think and act like business owners. Through our decentralized, entrepreneurial culture, trust is assumed and not something that needs to be proven first, giving our colleagues the autonomy to ignite their full potential and the support to develop into Great ITW leaders. The Italy chapter of the ITW Women’s Network (IWN) leveraged the strength of our decentralized culture last year to make the business case for joining Valore D , an association of Italian companies committed to promoting gender equality and fostering inclusive work environments throughout the country. ITW’s membership in Valore D, which began in 2023, provides colleagues the opportunity to participate in the organization’s cross-company mentorship program, training offerings and more. Five colleagues – each within a different division – were nominated to participate in mentoring programs last year, with five additional team members participating this year. “Valore D strives to create networking connections and shared experiences,” said Sara De Rubeis , human resources manager for ITW Appliance Components’ operations in Italy and the United Kingdom. Sara participated in Valore D’s mentorship cohort for middle managers. “It was tremendously rewarding to get to know and learn from someone from a different industry who shares similar values. My mentor’s career development advice on speaking in front of colleagues was useful for a recent presentation.” In addition to mentoring programs that span multiple months, Valore D offers shorter learning sessions, including workshops and seminars. Patrizia Cannino , a human resources manager with ITW Instron in Italy who participated in a two-day seminar, appreciated the opportunity to learn and connect with others. “Valore D’s efforts to promote inclusivity aligns with ITW’s commitment to treat all colleagues with dignity, fairness and respect,” said Patrizia. “This partnership is an example of how ITW strives to afford all colleagues the opportunity to reach their full potential.” Laura Filippi , country controller for ITW Italy and East Europe, was first introduced to Valore D through participation in one of its executive coaching sessions. As co-chair of IWN Italy, she recognizes the benefits of joining Valore D’s network. “Participating in Valore D not only provides ITW colleagues with meaningful professional development opportunities at pivotal stages of their career, but also enables ITW to showcase our inclusive culture and serve as a role model for other companies,” Laura said. “It is a great way to network, support gender initiatives and share best practices.” Chiara Cascone , director of operations for ITW Global Fasteners and fellow IWN chapter co-chair, agrees. “By participating in Valore D’s network, multiple ERG chapters throughout Italy are able to better support colleagues in their individual learning journeys.” As a second cohort continues the partnership with Valore D in 2024, the opportunity for continuous improvement continues to expand. At ITW, we remain committed to creating inclusive workplaces where all colleagues are heard and valued – so we can be the best ITW possible.
