---
title: Speer Academy Alums Excel as ITW Interns
url: https://www.itw.com/posts/speer-academy-alums-excel-as-itw-interns/
date: '2024-07-23'
author: ''
feed_url: http://www.itw.com/blog/rss
---
Prior to attending ITW David Speer Academy, Joel Perdomo and Christopher Johnson knew few details about ITW’s support of their high school. The tuition-free, public charter school in Chicago, Illinois, which was founded in 2014 to honor the legacy of former ITW Chairman & CEO David Speer, offers a world-class STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education to over 1,000 students in grades 9 through 12. Joel (class of 2019) chose to attend Speer Academy because of its proximity to his home, while Chris (class of 2021) was encouraged to enroll by his grandma and aunt because the school’s academic focus aligned nicely with his interest in gaming and robotics. Despite their initial unfamiliarity, they’ve since had first-hand experience with ITW’s and their alma mater’s investment in their success beyond their time enrolled. During college, both Joel and Chris received an email from ITW's Enterprise Talent team with information about ITW internship opportunities, as well as an offer to coach them through the internship application process, whether at ITW or beyond. Both acknowledged they received the email at a pivotal time. “While I didn’t fully realize it at the time I applied, this opportunity is truly a blessing,” said Chris, a student at Northern Illinois University serving as a mechanical engineering intern with ITW Residential & Renovation in Glenview, Illinois. “I love what I’m doing and how what I’m studying in school directly translates to what I’m working on during my internship.” Joel, who is completing his second internship with ITW and is on track to graduate from Northeastern Illinois University in December, was initially drawn to ITW because of the Automotive segment and his past work experience in the industry. But he has relished the opportunity to work in a different field at ITW this summer as a medical sales analyst intern at ITW Medical. “I’m grateful for the experience to learn something new while using my marketing and sales background,” he said. Both interns credit Speer Academy’s rigorous academics for preparing them for college and said the autonomy and personal responsibility that the school instilled in them as teenagers has helped them assimilate into ITW’s entrepreneurial culture. “There are no dumb questions,” said Joel. “Through my internship experiences, I’ve learned the importance of communicating with colleagues to get the information I need to successfully complete my tasks.” Chris explained how he has come to appreciate ITW’s Core Value of Simplicity and how it serves as the foundation for every project he completes. He also shared how he has been able to leverage events hosted by ITW’s African American Network (AAN), in addition to trips to the gym for pickup basketball games, as networking opportunities. “It has been great to meet so many colleagues in different settings as a way to learn more about the company and grow as an aspiring professional,” said Chris. Both Joel and Chris are looking forward to beginning their professional careers. Their collective advice to future Speer Academy graduates looking to secure internship or employment opportunities with ITW or elsewhere is simple: Bet on yourself. “ITW took a chance on me and gave me my first opportunity to work in an office setting,” said Joel. “Trust that you have the ability to be successful.” “Be confident in yourself,” added Chris.
